rosa_learning/deploying_application_workshop/learning-deploying-application-storage.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="learning-deploying-application-storage"]
= Persistent volumes for cluster storage
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
:context: cloud-experts-deploying-application-storage

toc::[]

//rosaworkshop.io content metadata
//Brought into ROSA product docs 2024-04-30

{rosa-classic-first} and Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS (ROSA) support storing persistent volumes with either link:https://aws.amazon.com/ebs/[Amazon Web Services (AWS) Elastic Block Store (EBS)] or link:https://aws.amazon.com/efs/[AWS Elastic File System (EFS)].

[id="using-persistent-volumes_deploying-application-storage"]
== Using persistent volumes
Use the following procedures to create a file, store it on a persistent volume in your cluster, and confirm that it still exists after pod failure and re-creation.

[id="viewing_deploying-application-storage"]
=== Viewing a persistent volume claim

.Procedure
. Navigate to the cluster's OpenShift web console.
. Click *Storage* in the left menu, then click *PersistentVolumeClaims* to see a list of all the persistent volume claims. 
. Click a persistence volume claim to see the size, access mode, storage class, and other additional claim details. 
+
[NOTE]
====
The access mode is `ReadWriteOnce` (RWO). This means that the volume can only be mounted to one node and the pod or pods can read and write to the volume.
====

[id="storing_deploying-application-storage"]
=== Storing your file

.Procedure
. In the OSToy app console, click *Persistent Storage* in the left menu.
. In the *Filename* box, enter a file name with a `.txt` extension, for example `test-pv.txt`.
. In the *File contents* box, enter a sentence of text, for example `OpenShift is the greatest thing since sliced bread!`.
. Click *Create file*.
+
image::cloud-experts-storage-ostoy-createfile.png[]
+
.Verification
. Scroll to *Existing files* on the OSToy app console.
. Click the file you created to see the file name and contents.
+
image::cloud-experts-storage-ostoy-viewfile.png[]

[id="crash-pod_deploying-application-storage"]
=== Crashing the pod

.Procedure
. On the OSToy app console, click *Home* in the left menu.
. Click *Crash pod*.

[id="confirm_deploying-application-storage"]
=== Confirming persistent storage

.Procedure
. Wait for the pod to re-create.
. On the OSToy app console, click *Persistent Storage* in the left menu.
. Find the file you created, and open it to view and confirm the contents.
+
image::cloud-experts-storage-ostoy-existingfile.png[]

.Verification
The deployment YAML file shows that we mounted link:https://github.com/openshift-cs/rosaworkshop/blob/master/rosa-workshop/ostoy/yaml/ostoy-frontend-deployment.yaml#L61[the directory] `/var/demo_files` to our persistent volume claim.

. Retrieve the name of your front-end pod by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods
----
+
. Start a secure shell (SSH) session in your container by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc rsh <pod_name>
----
+
. Go to the directory by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cd /var/demo_files
----
+
. *Optional:* See all the files you created by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ls
----
+
. Open the file to view the contents by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat test-pv.txt
----
+
. Verify that the output is the text you entered in the OSToy app console.
+
.Example terminal
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods
NAME                                  READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
ostoy-frontend-5fc8d486dc-wsw24       1/1       Running   0          18m
ostoy-microservice-6cf764974f-hx4qm   1/1       Running   0          18m

$ oc rsh ostoy-frontend-5fc8d486dc-wsw24

$ cd /var/demo_files/

$ ls
lost+found   test-pv.txt

$ cat test-pv.txt
OpenShift is the greatest thing since sliced bread!
----

[id="end-session_deploying-application-storage"]
=== Ending the session

.Procedure
* Type `exit` in your terminal to quit the session and return to the CLI.

[role="_additional-resources"]
== Additional resources
* For more information about persistent volume storage, see xref:../../storage/understanding-persistent-storage.adoc#persistent-volumes_understanding-persistent-storage[Understanding persistent storage].
* For more information about ROSA storage options, see xref:../../storage/index.adoc#storage-overview[Storage overview].

Commit message:

adding attributes to rosa_learning

rosa_learning/deploying_application_workshop/learning-deploying-application-storage.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="learning-deploying-application-storage"]
= Persistent volumes for cluster storage
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
:context: cloud-experts-deploying-application-storage

toc::[]

//rosaworkshop.io content metadata
//Brought into ROSA product docs 2024-04-30

{product-title} supports storing persistent volumes with either link:https://aws.amazon.com/ebs/[Amazon Web Services (AWS) Elastic Block Store (EBS)] or link:https://aws.amazon.com/efs/[AWS Elastic File System (EFS)].

[id="using-persistent-volumes_deploying-application-storage"]
== Using persistent volumes
Use the following procedures to create a file, store it on a persistent volume in your cluster, and confirm that it still exists after pod failure and re-creation.

[id="viewing_deploying-application-storage"]
=== Viewing a persistent volume claim

.Procedure
. Navigate to the cluster's OpenShift web console.
. Click *Storage* in the left menu, then click *PersistentVolumeClaims* to see a list of all the persistent volume claims.
. Click a persistence volume claim to see the size, access mode, storage class, and other additional claim details.
+
[NOTE]
====
The access mode is `ReadWriteOnce` (RWO). This means that the volume can only be mounted to one node and the pod or pods can read and write to the volume.
====

[id="storing_deploying-application-storage"]
=== Storing your file

.Procedure
. In the OSToy app console, click *Persistent Storage* in the left menu.
. In the *Filename* box, enter a file name with a `.txt` extension, for example `test-pv.txt`.
. In the *File contents* box, enter a sentence of text, for example `OpenShift is the greatest thing since sliced bread!`.
. Click *Create file*.
+
image::cloud-experts-storage-ostoy-createfile.png[]
+
.Verification
. Scroll to *Existing files* on the OSToy app console.
. Click the file you created to see the file name and contents.
+
image::cloud-experts-storage-ostoy-viewfile.png[]

[id="crash-pod_deploying-application-storage"]
=== Crashing the pod

.Procedure
. On the OSToy app console, click *Home* in the left menu.
. Click *Crash pod*.

[id="confirm_deploying-application-storage"]
=== Confirming persistent storage

.Procedure
. Wait for the pod to re-create.
. On the OSToy app console, click *Persistent Storage* in the left menu.
. Find the file you created, and open it to view and confirm the contents.
+
image::cloud-experts-storage-ostoy-existingfile.png[]

.Verification
The deployment YAML file shows that we mounted link:https://github.com/openshift-cs/rosaworkshop/blob/master/rosa-workshop/ostoy/yaml/ostoy-frontend-deployment.yaml#L61[the directory] `/var/demo_files` to our persistent volume claim.

. Retrieve the name of your front-end pod by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods
----
+
. Start a secure shell (SSH) session in your container by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc rsh <pod_name>
----
+
. Go to the directory by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cd /var/demo_files
----
+
. *Optional:* See all the files you created by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ls
----
+
. Open the file to view the contents by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat test-pv.txt
----
+
. Verify that the output is the text you entered in the OSToy app console.
+
.Example terminal
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods
NAME                                  READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
ostoy-frontend-5fc8d486dc-wsw24       1/1       Running   0          18m
ostoy-microservice-6cf764974f-hx4qm   1/1       Running   0          18m

$ oc rsh ostoy-frontend-5fc8d486dc-wsw24

$ cd /var/demo_files/

$ ls
lost+found   test-pv.txt

$ cat test-pv.txt
OpenShift is the greatest thing since sliced bread!
----

[id="end-session_deploying-application-storage"]
=== Ending the session

.Procedure
* Type `exit` in your terminal to quit the session and return to the CLI.

[role="_additional-resources"]
== Additional resources
* For more information about persistent volume storage, see xref:../../storage/understanding-persistent-storage.adoc#persistent-volumes_understanding-persistent-storage[Understanding persistent storage].
* For more information about {product-title} storage options, see xref:../../storage/index.adoc#storage-overview[Storage overview].
