rosa_learning/creating_cluster_workshop/learning-getting-started-admin-rights.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="learning-getting-started-admin-rights"]
= Granting admin privileges
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
:context: cloud-experts-getting-started-admin-rights

toc::[]

//rosaworkshop.io content metadata
//Brought into ROSA product docs 2023-11-30

Administration (admin) privileges are not automatically granted to users that you add to your cluster. If you want to grant admin-level privileges to certain users, you will need to manually grant them to each user. You can grant admin privileges from either the ROSA command-line interface (CLI) or the Red{nbsp}Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager web user interface (UI).

Red{nbsp}Hat offers two types of admin privileges:

* `cluster-admin`: `cluster-admin` privileges give the admin user full privileges within the cluster.

* `dedicated-admin`: `dedicated-admin` privileges allow the admin user to complete most administrative tasks with certain limitations to prevent cluster damage. It is best practice to use `dedicated-admin` when elevated privileges are needed.

For more information on admin privileges, see the 
ifdef::openshift-rosa-hcp[]
link:https://docs.openshift.com/rosa/rosa_install_access_delete_clusters/rosa-sts-accessing-cluster.html#rosa-create-cluster-admins_rosa-sts-accessing-cluster[administering a cluster] documentation.
endif::openshift-rosa-hcp[]
ifndef::openshift-rosa-hcp[]
xref:../../rosa_install_access_delete_clusters/rosa-sts-accessing-cluster.adoc#rosa-create-cluster-admins_rosa-sts-accessing-cluster[administering a cluster] documentation.
endif::openshift-rosa-hcp[]

== Using the ROSA CLI

. Assuming you are the user who created the cluster, run one of the following commands to grant admin privileges:
+
* For `cluster-admin`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa grant user cluster-admin --user <idp_user_name> --cluster=<cluster-name>
----
+
* For `dedicated-admin`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa grant user dedicated-admin --user <idp_user_name> --cluster=<cluster-name>
----

. Verify that the admin privileges were added by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa list users --cluster=<cluster-name>
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa list users --cluster=my-rosa-cluster
ID                 GROUPS
<idp_user_name>    cluster-admins
----

. If you are currently logged into the {hybrid-console}, log out of the console and log back in to the cluster to see a new perspective with the "Administrator Panel". You might need an incognito or private window.
+
image:cloud-experts-getting-started-admin-rights-admin-panel.png[]

. You can also test that admin privileges were added to your account by running the following command. Only a `cluster-admin` users can run this command without errors.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get all -n openshift-apiserver
----

== Using the Red{nbsp}Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager UI

. Log in to the {cluster-manager-url}.
. Select your cluster.
. Click the *Access Control* tab.
. Click the *Cluster roles and Access* tab in the sidebar.
. Click *Add user*.
+
image::cloud-experts-getting-started-admin-rights-access-control.png[]

. On the pop-up screen, enter the user ID.
. Select whether you want to grant the user `cluster-admins` or `dedicated-admins` privileges.
+
image::cloud-experts-getting-started-admin-rights-add-user2.png[]

Commit message:

adding attributes to rosa_learning

rosa_learning/creating_cluster_workshop/learning-getting-started-admin-rights.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="learning-getting-started-admin-rights"]
= Granting admin privileges
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
:context: cloud-experts-getting-started-admin-rights

toc::[]

//rosaworkshop.io content metadata
//Brought into ROSA product docs 2023-11-30

Administration (admin) privileges are not automatically granted to users that you add to your cluster. If you want to grant admin-level privileges to certain users, you will need to manually grant them to each user. You can grant admin privileges from either the {rosa-cli-first} or the Red{nbsp}Hat {cluster-manager} web user interface (UI).

Red{nbsp}Hat offers two types of admin privileges:

* `cluster-admin`: `cluster-admin` privileges give the admin user full privileges within the cluster.

* `dedicated-admin`: `dedicated-admin` privileges allow the admin user to complete most administrative tasks with certain limitations to prevent cluster damage. It is best practice to use `dedicated-admin` when elevated privileges are needed.

For more information on admin privileges, see the
ifdef::openshift-rosa-hcp[]
link:https://docs.openshift.com/rosa/rosa_install_access_delete_clusters/rosa-sts-accessing-cluster.html#rosa-create-cluster-admins_rosa-sts-accessing-cluster[administering a cluster] documentation.
endif::openshift-rosa-hcp[]
ifndef::openshift-rosa-hcp[]
xref:../../rosa_install_access_delete_clusters/rosa-sts-accessing-cluster.adoc#rosa-create-cluster-admins_rosa-sts-accessing-cluster[administering a cluster] documentation.
endif::openshift-rosa-hcp[]

== Using the {rosa-cli}

. Assuming you are the user who created the cluster, run one of the following commands to grant admin privileges:
+
* For `cluster-admin`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa grant user cluster-admin --user <idp_user_name> --cluster=<cluster-name>
----
+
* For `dedicated-admin`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa grant user dedicated-admin --user <idp_user_name> --cluster=<cluster-name>
----

. Verify that the admin privileges were added by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa list users --cluster=<cluster-name>
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa list users --cluster=my-rosa-cluster
ID                 GROUPS
<idp_user_name>    cluster-admins
----

. If you are currently logged into the {hybrid-console}, log out of the console and log back in to the cluster to see a new perspective with the "Administrator Panel". You might need an incognito or private window.
+
image:cloud-experts-getting-started-admin-rights-admin-panel.png[]

. You can also test that admin privileges were added to your account by running the following command. Only a `cluster-admin` users can run this command without errors.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get all -n openshift-apiserver
----

== Using the Red{nbsp}Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager UI

. Log in to the {cluster-manager-url}.
. Select your cluster.
. Click the *Access Control* tab.
. Click the *Cluster roles and Access* tab in the sidebar.
. Click *Add user*.
+
image::cloud-experts-getting-started-admin-rights-access-control.png[]

. On the pop-up screen, enter the user ID.
. Select whether you want to grant the user `cluster-admins` or `dedicated-admins` privileges.
+
image::cloud-experts-getting-started-admin-rights-add-user2.png[]
